.TH guacenc 1 "12 Mar 2016" "version 0.9.9" "Guacamole"
.
.SH NAME
guacenc \- Guacamole video encoder
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B guacenc
[\fB-s\fR \fIWIDTH\fRx\fIHEIGHT\fR]
[\fB-r\fR \fIBITRATE\fR]
[\fB-f\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]...
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B guacenc
is a video encoder which accepts Guacamole protocol dumps, such as those saved
when screen recording is enabled on a Guacamole connection, writing standard
video files as output.
.B guacenc
is essentially an implementation of a Guacamole client which accepts
its input from files instead of a network connection, and renders directly to
video instead of to the user's screen.
.P
Each \fIFILE\fR specified will be encoded as a raw MPEG-4 video stream to a new
file named \fIFILE\fR.m4v, encoded according to the other options specified. By
default, the output video will be \fI640\fRx\fI480\fR pixels, and will be saved
with a bitrate of \fI2000000\fR bits per second (2 Mbps). These defaults can be
overridden with the \fB-s\fR and \fB-r\fR options respectively. Existing files
will not be overwritten; the encoding process for any input file will be
aborted if it would result in overwriting an existing file.
.P
Guacamole acquires a write lock on recordings as they are being written. By
default,
.B guacenc
will check whether the each input file is locked and will refuse to read and
encode an input file if it appears to be an in-progress recording. This
behavior can be overridden by specifying the \fB-f\fR option. Encoding an
in-progress recording will still result in a valid video; the video will simply
cover the user's session only up to the current point in time.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIWIDTH\fRx\fIHEIGHT\fR
Changes the resolution of the video that
.B guacenc
renders. By default, this will be \fI640\fRx\fI480\fR.
.TP
\fB-r\fR \fIBITRATE\fR
Changes the bitrate that
.B guacenc
will use for the saved video. This is specified in bits per second. By default,
this will be \fI2000000\fR (2 Mbps). Higher values will result in larger but
higher-quality video files. Lower values will result in smaller but
lower-quality video files.
.TP
\fB-f\fR
Overrides the default behavior of
.B guacenc
such that input files will be encoded even if they appear to be recordings of
in-progress Guacamole sessions.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Michael Jumper <mike.jumper@guac-dev.org>
