.TH guacd.conf 5 "15 Dec 2015" "version 0.9.9" "Guacamole"
.
.SH NAME
/etc/guacamole/guacd.conf \- Configuration file for guacd
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B /etc/guacamole/guacd.conf
is the configuration file for the Guacamole proxy daemon used by the Guacamole
web application and framework,
.B guacd.
Use of this file is entirely optional, and all of its options can be specified
from the command line when running
.B guacd.
If you provide both the
.B guacd.conf
file and command line options, the command line options will take precedence.
.
.SH SYNTAX
.B guacd.conf
is made up of sections, where each section contains a set of parameter/value
pairs. The parameters available are dictated by the section in use, and
parameters may only be specified within a section.
.P
The beginning of each section is denoted with a section name in brackets, and
each section ends implicitly with the beginning of a new section, or at the end
of the file.
.TP
\fB[server]\fR
Contains parameters which control how
.B guacd
behaves as a server, from a network perspective.
.TP
\fB[daemon]\fR
Parameters which configure how
.B guacd
behaves as a daemon, such as what file should contain the PID, if any.
.TP
\fB[ssl]\fR
Parameters which control the SSL support of
.B guacd,
such as the certificate and private key used for encryption of the Guacamole
protocol. This section and its parameters are only valid if
.B guacd
was built with SSL support.
.P
Parameters within sections are written as a parameter name, followed by an
equals sign, followed by the parameter value, all on one line. Comments may be
placed anywhere, and consist of arbitrary text following a
.B #
symbol until end-of-line:
.TP
\fIname\fR \fB=\fR \fIvalue\fR \fB#\fR \fISome arbitrary comment text\fR
.P
Beware that it is the combination of the section name with the parameter name
that makes up the fully qualified name of a parameter. Each parameter
absolutely
.I must
be placed only within its proper section, or
.B guacd.conf
will fail to be parsed, and
.B guacd
will not start.
.P
If special characters need to be placed within a parameter value, such as
whitespace, \fB#\fR, \fB"\fR, or \fB\\\fR, the entire value must be enclosed in
double quotes, and each occurrence of \fB"\fR or \fB\\\fR within the value must
be escaped with backslashes:
.TP
\fIname\fR \fB=\fR \fB"\fR\fIquoted # value \\\\ with \\" special characters\fR\fB"\fR
.
.SH SERVER PARAMETERS
.TP
\fBbind_host\fR \fB=\fR \fIHOSTNAME\fR
Requires
.B guacd
to bind to a specific host when listening for connections. By default,
.B guacd
will bind to localhost only.
.TP
\fBbind_port\fR \fB=\fR \fIPORT\fR
Requires
.B guacd
to bind to a specific port when listening for connections. By default,
.B guacd
will bind to port 4822.
.
.SH DAEMON PARAMETERS
.TP
\fBlog_level\fR \fB=\fR \fILEVEL\fR
Sets the maximum level at which
.B guacd
will log messages to syslog and, if running in the foreground, the console.
Legal values are
.B debug,
.B info,
.B warning,
and
.B error.
The default value is
.B info.
.TP
\fBpid_file\fR \fB=\fR \fIFILE\fR
Causes
.B guacd
to write its PID to the specified file upon startup. Note that
.B guacd
must have sufficient privileges to create or write this file, or it will fail
to start. This parameter is typically needed for startup scripts, such that the
script can report on the status of
.B guacd
and kill it if necessary.
.
.SH SSL PARAMETERS
If
.B guacd
was built with SSL support, then connections between the web application and
.B guacd
can be encrypted if an SSL certificate and key file are given.
.P
When using a chain of certificates, you must append the additional certificates
to your server certificate. This can be done easily with the standard
.B cat
command. Beware that the certificate for
.B guacd
.I must
be the first certificate in the file.
.TP
\fBserver_certificate\fR \fB=\fR \fICERTIFICATE FILE\fR
Enables SSL/TLS using the given cerficiate file. Future connections to
.B guacd
will require SSL/TLS enabled in the client (the web application).
.TP
\fBserver_key\fR \fB=\fR \fIKEY FILE\fR
Enables SSL/TLS using the given private key file. Future connections to
.B guacd
will require SSL/TLS enabled in the client (the web application).
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.RS
#
# guacd.conf example
#

[daemon]

pid_file = /var/run/guacd.pid

[server]

bind_host = localhost
bind_port = 4822

[ssl]

server_certificate = /etc/ssl/certs/guacd.crt
server_key = /etc/ssl/private/guacd.key
.RE
.fi
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Michael Jumper <mike.jumper@guac-dev.org>
